The talk is called enterprise patterns,
and
where is the emphasis on enterprise?
And I think that's a fair question.
When we talk about enterprise patterns,
and so
somebody chimed in and said capitalism,
which I think is hilarious.
But when we talk about
enterprise software, and
it's somebody who has been
on hundreds of enterprise
engagements that the patterns
that we need to communicate or
rather that I find that
individuals within an enterprise
need to adopt to be effective
is not the by nature or
not an escalation of complexity but
rather,
they're oftentimes so
simplistic that in and
of themselves,
they look like almost childish in a way.
And so, for me kind of this big,
I think, philosophical and
fundamental shift Is that when you
talk about enterprise patterns,
that the best ones are going
to be very simplistic, in so
much that you can apply them at scale
across your entire application.
And so this is where,
when we talk about enterprise patterns,
that I would be doing everybody
a disservice if I came through and
I started talking about immediately,
right out of the gates,
microservices, distributed architectures,
high scalability,
infrastructure with orchestrators
etc without addressing the core
problem that exists across
all enterprise applications,
which is complexity,
which can be solved through the diligent
application of first principles.
So just a little bit of
commentary about this,
is that when I run across a team that is
struggling, implementing a solution,
more often than not the temptation is
to put the blame on the framework, or
whatever technology that you
happen to be using at the time.
And so a really good example of
this is that you'll show up and
somebody or a team is having a problem
implementing an angular solution,
and it's not because angular is bad
is because the implementation and
the execution of that particular
initiative is not great, it's problematic.
And the solution to this is
to simplify the architecture,
simplify the implementation,
embrace first principles that
even the first thing that I would do is,
I would go through and
I would look for the axis of evil and I
would start to refactor those pieces out.
Unfortunately, the default position,
or typically the most common
reaction that I see is that because
a team's not identified the root
cause of the problem, which is
complexity and their response to it.
That they blame the framework, and
then what happens is that they simply
just say, we need to switch frameworks,
and we need to go to react or view or
from view to react or vice versa.
And so I see this cycle of almost
every three years, teams that have not
embraced first principles,
that they get themselves into problems,
they blame the framework and
they simply hop to the next hottest thing
without understanding why their
previous initiative failed.
And so if you want to change the quality
of code that an engineer is writing,
first of all,
you don't change the way that they code,
you change the way that they think and
the way that they think
about code, as a result,
their code will get better.
And so
I think that's a fair question in that,
when we talk about complexity,
the antidote is simplicity.
And if you'll bear with me,
that everything that I'm
teaching you in this workshop,
it all stacks on top of each other,
in that all of these patterns and
concepts that I am talking about,
they scale infinitely.
And so
we'll see more of that as we go along.